# t_swift_and_text_mining
## Introduction and Hypothesis
When we think of the words “heartbreak”, “love”, “growth”, “shake”, and “men”, our automatic first thought is Taylor Swift, the queen of pop. Seeing from the giant success of her eras tour, Taylor Swift creates music that resonates with a universal audience, and has been doing this since her debut album in 2006. Not only is Taylor Swift well-known for her songwriting skills, but she is also known for her ability to socially and culturally influence her fanbase through her music. There is a reason why people listen to Taylor Swift’s songs when they break up or listen to the song “22” when they turn 22. Now in 2023, her music has evolved with her, with each album representing a different “era” of her life. Each era has a different sound and feel, and we wanted to analyze how her sound has changed by examining the themes in her music. Her music addresses many topics that young women can relate to, spanning from heartbreak, love, etc., so we wanted to analyze these main themes to see where her influence mainly lies.

There have been many conflicting opinions on Taylor Swift’s music over the years, with some saying that her music is repetitive in its nature, while others saying that it covers many different feels and topics. We will investigate this conflict in our analysis below.

Hypothesis: Our overall hypothesis is that Taylor Swift's music stays consistent over time, however each era varies with Taylor Swift's feelings and themes. There will be individual hypotheses for each method we used below.

*Overall this project had the task of identifying an interesting problem, formulating a hypothesis about it, developing experiments to test hypothesis, presenting the results of investigations, and discussing the findings. Methods of sentiment and frequency analysis, tokenization, bert classification, topic modeling, and more were used.  
